# Random Initialize

When you change your neural network, it's important to initialize the weights randomly. For logistic regression, it was okay to initialize the weights to zero. But for a neural network of initialize the weights to parameters to all zero and then applied gradient descent, it won't work. 

So its better to add constant value to weights e.g '0.001', But why not put the number 100 or 1000? Turns out that we usually prefer to initialize the weights to very small random values. Because if you are using a tanh or sigmoid activation function, or the other sigmoid, even just at the output layer. If the weights are too large, then when you compute the activation values, remember that z[1]=w1 x + b. And then a1 is the activation function applied to z1. So if w is very big, z will be very, or at least some values of z will be either very large or very small. And so in that case, you're more likely to end up at these fat parts of the tanh function or the sigmoid function, where the slope or the gradient is very small. Meaning that gradient descent will be very slow. So learning was very slow.

So finally, it turns out that sometimes they can be better constants than 0.01. When you're training a neural network with just one hidden layer, it is a relatively shallow neural network, without too many hidden layers. Set it to 0.01 will probably work okay. But when you're training a very very deep neural network, then you might want to pick a different constant than 0.01. And in next week's material, we'll talk a little bit about how and when you might want to choose a different constant than 0.01. But either way, it will usually end up being a relatively small number. So that's it for this week's videos. You now know how to set up a neural network of a hidden layer, initialize the parameters, make predictions using. As well as compute derivatives and implement gradient descent, using backprop.
